Let's now dive into
Laplacian smoothing,
a technique you can use to
avoid your probabilities
being zero.
The expression used to calculate
the conditional probability
of a word, given the class,
is the frequency of the word in
the corpus shown here
as freq of word i,
class divided by the number of
words in the corpus or N class.
Smoothing the probability
function means that you will
use a slightly different
formula from the original.
Note that I've added a
one in the numerator.
This little transformation avoids
the probability being zero.
However, it adds a new term to
all the frequencies that is
not correctly
normalized by N class.
To account for this,
you will add a new term in
the denominator V class.
That is the number of unique
words in your vocabulary to
account for that extra term
added in the numerator.
So now all the probabilities
in each column will sum to one.
This process is called
Laplacian smoothing.
Going back to this example,
let's use the formula on it.
The first thing you
need to calculate is
the number of unique
words in your vocabulary.
In this example, you
have eight unique words.
So now let's calculate
the probability for each
word in the positive class.
For the word I, the
positive class,
you get 3 plus 1 divided by
13 plus 8 which is 0.19.
For the negative class,
you have 3 plus 1 divided
by 12 plus 8 which is 0.2,
and then so on for the
rest of the table.
The numbers shown here
have been rounded,
but using this method the sum of
probabilities in your
table will still be one.
Note that the word because no
longer has a probability of zero.
Great, that's
Laplacian smoothing.
Now you know why you have to
use Laplacian smoothing so
your probabilities don't end up
being zero. That's very cool.